src/pages/docs/tutorials/todo-app/adding-todos.md, before:

---
title: "Adding Todos"
description: "Foo bar."
parentId: "todo-app"
layout: "tutorial"
time: 90
weight: 8
---

## {$page.title}

You almost have a fully functioning Todo App! The only missing feature is the
ability to add new todos to the list. This is where the `TodoForm` component
will come into play.

First, go ahead and add a couple of event listeners, one for the form
submission (onsubmit), and the other for when the input value changes (onkeyup).

```text/jsx
// TodoForm.js

class TodoForm extends JSXComponent {
	render() {
		return (
			<form class="todo-form" data-onsubmit={this.handleSubmit.bind(this)}>
				<label for="title">
					Todo
					<input
						data-onkeyup={this.handleChange.bind(this)}
						name="title"
					/>
				</label>
				<button type="submit">Add</button>
			</form>
		);
	}

	handleSubmit(event) {
		// Prevent default browser functionality
		event.preventDefault();
	}

	handleChange(event) {
	}
}
```

Now you can use the `value` property from STATE to keep track of the changes
made to the input value.

```text/jsx
// TodoForm.js

class TodoForm extends JSXComponent {
	render() {
		return (
			<form class="todo-form" data-onsubmit={this.handleSubmit.bind(this)}>
				<label for="title">
					Todo
					<input
						data-onkeyup={this.handleChange.bind(this)}
						name="title"
						value={this.state.value}
					/>
				</label>
				<button type="submit">Add</button>
			</form>
		);
	}

	...

	handleChange(event) {
		this.state.value = event.target.value;
	}
}
```

The value of `this.state.value` will now match the value in the input.

You can also emit a custom event when the form is submitted, similarly to
what `TodoItem` does to notify the parent component that something happened.

```text/jsx
// TodoForm.js

class TodoForm extends JSXComponent {
	...

	handleSubmit(event) {
		event.preventDefault();

		if (this.state.value) {
			this.emit('todoAdd', {
				title: this.state.value
			});

			// Clears the input value
			this.state.value = '';
		}
	}
}
```

Then in the `TodoApp` component, you can listen to this event and add a new
todo.

```text/jsx
// TodoApp.js

class TodoApp extends JSXComponent {
	render() {
		return (
			<div class="todo-app">
				...

				<TodoForm
					events={{
						todoAdd: this.handleTodoAdd.bind(this)
					}}
				 />
			</div>
		);
	}

	addTodo(title) {
		// Creates a new array with all of the elements
		// from the previous array, with the newly added item
		this.state.todos = [...this.state.todos, {
			done: false,
			title
		}];
	}

	handleTodoAdd(event) {
		this.addTodo(event.title);
	}

	...
}
```

Now when you add some text to the input and submit the form, a new todo will
automatically be added to the list.

That's it! You've successfully created a simple Todo App with Metal.js. Now that
you are comfortable with the basics, check out the guides for more advanced
documentation.

![Finished GIF](/images/tutorials/todo-app/finished_todo_anim.gif "Finished GIF")

Commit message:

Briefly explain the nature of controlled inputs

src/pages/docs/tutorials/todo-app/adding-todos.md, after:

---
title: "Adding Todos"
description: "Foo bar."
parentId: "todo-app"
layout: "tutorial"
time: 90
weight: 8
---

## {$page.title}

You almost have a fully functioning Todo App! The only missing feature is the
ability to add new todos to the list. This is where the `TodoForm` component
will come into play.

First, go ahead and add a couple of event listeners, one for the form
submission (onsubmit), and the other for when the input value changes (onkeyup).

```text/jsx
// TodoForm.js

class TodoForm extends JSXComponent {
	render() {
		return (
			<form class="todo-form" data-onsubmit={this.handleSubmit.bind(this)}>
				<label for="title">
					Todo
					<input
						data-onkeyup={this.handleChange.bind(this)}
						name="title"
					/>
				</label>
				<button type="submit">Add</button>
			</form>
		);
	}

	handleSubmit(event) {
		// Prevent default browser functionality
		event.preventDefault();
	}

	handleChange(event) {
	}
}
```

Now you can use the `value` property from STATE to keep track of the changes
made to the input value. This makes the input a **controlled input**, where the
value of the input is controlled by the state of the component.

In other words, when the value of the state changes it will automatically change
the value in the input as well, keeping the two in sync.

```text/jsx
// TodoForm.js

class TodoForm extends JSXComponent {
	render() {
		return (
			<form class="todo-form" data-onsubmit={this.handleSubmit.bind(this)}>
				<label for="title">
					Todo
					<input
						data-onkeyup={this.handleChange.bind(this)}
						name="title"
						value={this.state.value}
					/>
				</label>
				<button type="submit">Add</button>
			</form>
		);
	}

	...

	handleChange(event) {
		this.state.value = event.target.value;
	}
}
```

The value of `this.state.value` will now match the value in the input.

You can also emit a custom event when the form is submitted, similarly to
what `TodoItem` does to notify the parent component that something happened.

```text/jsx
// TodoForm.js

class TodoForm extends JSXComponent {
	...

	handleSubmit(event) {
		event.preventDefault();

		if (this.state.value) {
			this.emit('todoAdd', {
				title: this.state.value
			});

			// Clears the input value
			this.state.value = '';
		}
	}
}
```

Then in the `TodoApp` component, you can listen to this event and add a new
todo.

```text/jsx
// TodoApp.js

class TodoApp extends JSXComponent {
	render() {
		return (
			<div class="todo-app">
				...

				<TodoForm
					events={{
						todoAdd: this.handleTodoAdd.bind(this)
					}}
				 />
			</div>
		);
	}

	addTodo(title) {
		// Creates a new array with all of the elements
		// from the previous array, with the newly added item
		this.state.todos = [...this.state.todos, {
			done: false,
			title
		}];
	}

	handleTodoAdd(event) {
		this.addTodo(event.title);
	}

	...
}
```

Now when you add some text to the input and submit the form, a new todo will
automatically be added to the list.

That's it! You've successfully created a simple Todo App with Metal.js. Now that
you are comfortable with the basics, check out the guides for more advanced
documentation.

![Finished GIF](/images/tutorials/todo-app/finished_todo_anim.gif "Finished GIF")
